Kofun burial mounds
Sakai is famous for its many burial mounds dating back to the Kofun (burial mound) period between the 3rd and 7th centuries. Most impressive of all is an especially massive ancient mausoleum called the Daisen Kofun, which is believed to be the resting place of Emperor Nintoku. The site is off-limits to the public, but you can view it from the observatory at City Hall. You can also walk or run around the 3-km perimeter. And you can eat it, for example in the form of a kofun-shaped dessert at co.fun cafe.

Knives
Metalworking has been part of Sakai's identity since the centuries when the burial mounds were being made. When Portuguese traders introduced tobacco to Japan much later, in the 16th century, the local metalworkers soon began making high-quality blades to cut it. These days, the kitchen knives made in Sakai have a global reputation. 

Bicycles
Shimano Shozaburo, the son of a metalworker, established Shimano Iron Works in 1921. His only machine was a borrowed lathe. Just 15 years later, Shimano bicycles was able to send this bicycle to the Imperial Household as a gift for the Crown Prince, who would later become the Heisei Emperor. These days, Shimano is known not only for bicycles but also fishing tackle and rowing equipment.

Wagashi sweets
Sakai is home to several long-established wagashi shops that have been operating for centuries. They are often crafted to accompany matcha. This reflects Sakai's historical links with Sen no Rikyū, the famous tea master who perfected the Japanese tea ceremony. At the Denshokan Museum, they sometimes organize wagashi demonstrations.

Incense
Sakai’s historical success as a port was rooted in a unique combination of location, autonomy, and cultural openness, fostering trade with Chinese, Korean, Portuguese, and Southeast Asian merchants. In the 14th-16th centuries, Sakai became a hub for crafting incense from the aromatic woods that were imported from Southeast Asia. One important use for incense in those days was to enhance the atmosphere of tea rooms.

